# part 1 of explaining  UML 
One of the things that help the software developer to build a good software is models, here comes the UML which is a unified modelling language, created by IBM. This language has been created to unify the modelling methods so its easy for all the developer to work with it without misunderstanding the model. So, what the model can do to help the software to be better? Before we answer, we need to know that UML work for object-oriented systems. Now the modelling help specifying the system and understanding its architecture and no doubt its going to decrease the complexity for large systems. This UML was influenced strongly by three methods which is the object modelling technique and the booch method and object-oriented software engineering method. Because of the fact that UML is one of the ways to build a good system, we need to know really why. The UML can provide a formal model to make the information so precise and you can put the same information in various ways and levels of detail, for example you have a function that make the user to put any item of the store in the Wishlist, at this point in time you can create two models for this function. Lets say the first one will be a use case, so the use case will help to show how the user will interact with the system but will not include high levels of details, on the other side which is the second model, class diagram you are going to put a class the with name of the function, inside the class will contain more detail for the function. From that we see how the UML gives you the opportunity to express information in different ways. That also gives you a perspective on the system helping understanding it better, and since its formal and have no unambiguous these models can generate codes for programming languages such as python and java, and the opposite. Since we have a good understand of the UML, lets talk about some rules that apply on this language. First the things and they are the building blocks of UML, its include such as structural tings which going to define and explain the nouns of the models and behavioral things are dynamic parts and the behaviors that will change or interact over time, and the grouping things which are the part that going to organize in the UML. I think that annotation things can be with the structural tings since it`s explain more because the notes. These things are one of the rules that makes the UML more professional.
 
 # part 2 of explaining UML
  
As in the end of the part 1 we talked about the rules that makes UML more professional, at the present time lets talk about the second rule which is relationship. Relationships is important in the model due to the fact that if there is no relation between the component of the system then the system will be a frozen system for that reason no action will occur. We saw that no system can be built without a Relationships, but what the Relationships? Its along the lines of dependency like you have a class called A and class B, the class A to be changed its depend on the class B, so you cant expect changes in A without B. but for association class A Its not a component of B so like the opposite of Dependency the changes in the A wont affect B. in aggregation as in association you describe a relation between component that has some connection but the deferent is in aggregation its going to be between a thing as whole and its parts. For generalization its basically a parent-child relation as the child class inherit element form the parent class and so on. Now lets move to diagrams, the UML provide a lot of various diagrams that as I said in the part 1 help you to have more perspective on the system, will I know at this point of time not all developing teams focusing on the diagrams for the reason that may have a full understand of the system as whole but still when you try to build a new unique system that it might be hard to understand, will here definitely you must use diagrams. Lets talk about the class diagram, its contain a number of classes which is a set of objects with some attributes and operations. To explain it well let give an example, I have a gym management system that the manager is a class and the customer is another class, since both of the manager and the customer has a name and age and id, I can put these in one class and use the relation generalization, back to the manager class its may contain his salary as an object and a function to edit the customer information that's means their will be an association relation between the manager and the customer to make the manager edit. For the customer class it may contain the membership number and the membership package also. For me I see the class diagram as the best diagram, because its help to understand the system and it`s at a good level of details
